# Concepts
 Semantic Encryption      Semantic Encryption is a novel encryption scheme which is based on NIST Encryption standards. The traditional encryption methods (such as AES, RSA, etc.) produces an encrypted text which does not follow the format of the original plain text. For example, encrypting a phone number will produce a alpha numeric string which does not look like a phone number. When a phone number is encrypted using Semantic Encryption it produces a string that produces an output that looks like a phone number (with NPA NXX XXXX arranged in the same format as the original plain text.              Example:          Unencrypted Phone Number: 770-098-0987          Phone Number encrypted by Standard Encryption: 1CYR+88ZGE1ymsx+o4x7uX3ekgDfnU11          Phone Number encrypted by Semantic Encryption: 767-208-7386  Right to Forgive  Security regulations and policies may require that UII data needs to be Erased or Forgotten, when requested by the owner of the data. For example, if a customer requests that his UII data is Erased, then the enterprise needs to delete or make customer’s data unusable. Alternatively, the enterprise can remove the sensitive elements of the customer data so that the customer can no longer be identified in the data. For example, if customer’s name, contact information and other identifiable information is removed from the customer’s transaction history, it makes customer transaction history insensitive as it can no longer be identified with the customer. It is common in enterprises to have copies of the same data saved and maintained in multiple data stores in the enterprise. For example, an enterprise may choose to maintain same data in: i) Transactional Data Store, which has real time and/or near-real time shopping/buying/selling transactions ii) Operational Data Store, which has copies of historical raw business transaction data iii) Data Warehouse, which has the summarized data for the business transactions iv) Data Marts, which has data needed by intra departmental applications. All these data stores may have UII information. In order to Forget or Erase any specific customer data, the sensitive data needs to be removed from all these data stores. CipherWorks provide a novel solution for easily making the sensitive data unusable when the data is not needed. Anomaly Detection  CipherWorks provides services for semantically encrypting and decrypting the sensitive data. The encryption and decryption services are supposed to be used only by applications that have privilege to perform encryption and decryption. Any anomalous (or fraudulent) use is monitored by CwHawk at periodic interval. CwHawk uses Machine Learning (ML) to continuously learn the usage pattern for all encryption and decryption services. CwHawk learns the usage pattern for every Hour Of the Day (HOD) and Day Of the Week (DOW) for all the available usage history. When CwHawk notices any anomaly in usage, it computes a Risk Score and writes to the log file. The log file needs to be monitored by the enterprise system monitoring tools to alert the security administrators.
